Add VPE to voice product docs (#37513)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/voice_control/voice_remote_local_assistant.markdown

## Some options for speech-to-text and text-to-speech

There are speech-to-text and text-to-speech options that run entirely local. No data is sent to external servers for processing.

### Speech-to-text engines

> We propose two options for local speech-to-text engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are currently two options to run speech-to-text locally: **Speech-to-Phrase** and **Whisper**.
```

**Speech-to-Phrase**:

> [Speech-to-Phrase](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase) is a close-ended speech model. This means it will transcribe only what it knows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Speech-to-Phrase](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase) is a close-ended speech model. 

- It transcribes what it knows.
```

> The result is an extremely fast transcription even on a Home Assistant Green or Raspberry Pi 4 (under one second).
> 
> Speech-to-Phrase only supports a subset of Assist’s voice commands, and more open-ended things like shopping lists, naming a timer, and broadcasts are not usable out of the box. 
> 
> Speech-to-Phrase supports various languages available [here](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase?tab=readme-ov-file#supported-languages).
> 
> It is a great option for Home control!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extremely fast transcription even on a Home Assistant Green or Raspberry Pi 4 (under one second).
- Only supports a subset of Assist’s voice commands.
   - More open-ended items such as shopping lists, naming a timer, and broadcasts are *not* usable out of the box.
   - Speech-to-Phrase supports [various languages](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase?tab=readme-ov-file#supported-languages).
- These qualities make it a great option for Home control!
```

**Whisper**

> [Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) is a open-ended speech model. This means it will try to transcribe everything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) is an open-ended speech model.

- It will try to transcribe everything.
```

> 
> This comes at a cost, a slower processing speed: On a Raspberry Pi 4, it takes around 8 seconds to process incoming voice commands. On an Intel NUC, it is done in under a second.
> 
> Whisper supports various languages available [here](https://github.com/openai/whisper#available-models-and-languages).
> 
> It's a great option only if you have powerful hardware at home, and if you plan to extend your voice set-up beyond simple home control, for example by pairing your assistant with a LLM-based agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The cost is slower processing speed: 
    - On a Raspberry Pi 4, it takes around 8 seconds to process incoming voice commands. 
    - On an Intel NUC, it is done in under a second.
- Supports [various languages](https://github.com/openai/whisper#available-models-and-languages).
- Whisper is only a great option in the following case: 
    1. You have powerful hardware at home.
    2.  You plan to extend your voice set-up beyond simple home control.  For example by pairing your assistant with a LLM-based agent.
```

## Some options for speech-to-text and text-to-speech

There are speech-to-text and text-to-speech options that run entirely local. No data is sent to external servers for processing.

### Speech-to-text engines

There are currently two options to run speech-to-text locally: **Speech-to-Phrase** and **Whisper**.

> **Speech-to-Phrase**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Speech-to-Phrase
```

[Speech-to-Phrase](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase) is a close-ended speech model. 

- It transcribes what it knows.
- Extremely fast transcription even on a Home Assistant Green or Raspberry Pi 4 (under one second).
- Only supports a subset of Assist’s voice commands.
   - More open-ended items such as shopping lists, naming a timer, and broadcasts are *not* usable out of the box.

>    - Speech-to-Phrase supports [various languages](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase?tab=readme-ov-file#supported-languages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Speech-to-Phrase supports [various languages](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase?tab=readme-ov-file#supported-languages).
```

- These qualities make it a great option for Home control!

> **Whisper**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Whisper
```

[Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) is an open-ended speech model.

- It will try to transcribe everything.
- The cost is slower processing speed: 
    - On a Raspberry Pi 4, it takes around 8 seconds to process incoming voice commands. 
    - On an Intel NUC, it is done in under a second.
- Supports [various languages](https://github.com/openai/whisper#available-models-and-languages).
- Whisper is only a great option in the following case: 
    1. You have powerful hardware at home.

>     2.  You plan to extend your voice set-up beyond simple home control.  For example by pairing your assistant with a LLM-based agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. You plan to extend your voice set-up beyond simple home control. For example, by pairing your assistant with an LLM-based agent.
```

## Some options for speech-to-text and text-to-speech

There are speech-to-text and text-to-speech options that run entirely local. No data is sent to external servers for processing.

### Speech-to-text engines

There are currently two options to run speech-to-text locally: **Speech-to-Phrase** and **Whisper**.

**Speech-to-Phrase**:
[Speech-to-Phrase](https://github.com/OHF-voice/speech-to-phrase) is a close-ended speech model. 

- It transcribes what it knows.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Also be sure to check the specific tutorial for [using Piper in Automations](voice_control/using_tts_in_automation/)

> ## Learning more about Speech-to-Phrase philosophy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learning more about Speech-to-Phrase
```
